7.12 Release and Update notes #466 (#468)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/release/upgrade.adoc

=== Applications
When upgrading to new feature versions of Enonic XP, new versions of standard apps may also be available.

After upgrading XP, check for new versions of your installed applications from Enonic market.
We generally always recommend updating your apps to the latest version!

== v7.12 notes

> * Applications can now be installed on Project level. This makes Project root similar to Site: any content provided by apps can be created on the Project root and Site <<cms/mappings#_mappings, Mappings>> provided by apps allow intercepting content calls.

Reviewer: Not sure we need it here. It's a new feature and doesn't affect upgrade.

> * You need to reconfigure All Project level Applications configured before version 7.12, if you have any. This is not a breaking change, as this feature was not announced in 7.11 and was not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You need to reconfigure all Project level applications configured before version 7.12, if you have any. This is not a breaking change, as this feature was not announced in 7.11 and was not officially supported until 7.12.
```

> * Content API is now enforced to support only `draft` and `master` branch. Node API continues to support custom branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Content API is now enforced to support only `draft` and `master` branches. Node API continues to support custom branches.
```

> * Content API does not allow to create/modify/delete content directly on `master` branch. All content must be published from `draft` to `master.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Content API does not allow to create/modify/delete content directly on `master` branch or to publish to any other branch than `master.`
```

* Content `PENDING_DELETE` state is no longer in use. Content deletion no longer happens during unpublishing. Instead, content deletion forces content to be unpublished immediately.

> * Node state has been deprecated and no longer in use. In was only used for content's `PENDING_DELETE` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Node state has been deprecated and is no longer in use, as it was only used for content's `PENDING_DELETE` status.
```

* Content API audit-log no longer logs `system.content.update` events by default. This can be changed back by setting `auditlog.filter = *` in <<deployment/config#_content, content config>>

> * `draft` branch access is now restricted. By default, only `system.admin.login` role has access. Additional principles can be configured in <<deployment/config#_portal, portal config>> by `draftBranchAllowedFor` setting. Note that `system.admin` role always has access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `draft` branch is now restricted for unauthenticated access. By default, only `system.admin.login` role has access. Additional principles can be configured in <<deployment/config#_portal, portal config>> via `draftBranchAllowedFor` setting. Note that `system.admin` role always has access, regardless of the config.
```
